...Actually, the Governor-General seems to be on very bad terms with LaShiec!
A doctor named 'Luveno' used to have a laboratory in Gothic Forest.
Aawww! No WAY! Hurry up and buy one! Hmph!
Ahh, you're late! Quickly! Do me a favour and bring my assistant back here. He's probably hiding in that underground tunnel. It really irritates me how shy a person he is.
Alas, Myau was not able to open the lid to the bottle.
Alisa and her companions were flung into the sky.
Alisa held the 'Eclipse Torch' over her head.
Alisa opened the lid to the bottle, and the contents quietly spilled out.
Alisa took the 'Laerma Berries' and put them in the 'Laconian Pot'.
Alisa,
Alisa: I will go and fight to ensure that my brother did not die in vain! I know he will be watching over me...
Alisa: Nero! What happened?! Hang on!
All the people in this village hate those Palmans, eh.
Alright, there yuh go. Take good care uv'im.
Alright, we will issue you a passport. Please take it.
Amazing! You managed to make it here even though they shut down the sea routes and we are no longer allowed to use boats!
and Myau.
And so you finally arrive. How fortunate you are. Do you really wish to destroy me?
Are you by any chance searching for the 'Dungeon Key'?
Are you suffering from an illness right now?
At last, the spaceship is finished! I'm pleased to present to you, the 'Luveno'! But you won't be able to pilot the spaceship yourself.
Bartevo is my territory. Don't be screwin' around!
Before LaShiec's powerful grasp, this village was very wealthy.
Camineet Residential District on the planet Palma.
Cheapskate!
Corona Tower lies on the other side of the mountains to the North of this village, eh.
Could you get me out of here? Bah, what's the use?
Defeat LaShiec?! That's nonsense!
Destination: Skray, on Dezoris. Confirm?
Destination: Uzo, on Motabia. Confirm?
Dezoris is a planet of ice.
Did you bring a present for the Governor-General?
Do you have a passport?
Do you have a roadpass?
Do you know about the
Do you know of a jewel called the 'Carbunkle Eye'? Rumor has it that it's being held by the Casba Dragon.
Do you know of a robot called 'Hapsby'?
Do you know the planets in the Algol Solar System?
Do you know what the hardest, strongest material in the world is?
Do you oppose me?
Don't disobey King Lashiek.
Don't fuck with me!
Don't let this get out, but there's a fortuneteller named Damoa who is in possession of a crystal that LaShiec hates. There must be something secret about that crystal.
Everything I say is correct. Understand?
Forgive me, but there is nothing more I can do. May your journey be safe.
Give it up, willya? Now get outta here!
Good. Good.  I sense that you are looking for something, yes?
Good. Well then, I'm going to go to Gothic Village and make  the proper arrangements. Meet me there later. Oh, don't worry. I can make it there myself.
Guards: You little bastard - poking your nose into LaShiec's business like that! Maybe from now on you'll try to mind your manners!
Hapsby has a hard head.
Have you ever done anything bad?
Have you heard of the 'Frad Cloak?' They say it's light in weight, but has superb defensive power.
Hee hee hee! You guys wanna die too?
Hey, cat! C'mere!
Hey, what the hell?! I'm not selling you ANYTHING!
Hey, you mind if I bum a 'Perolimate'?
Hey. That's wierd... Where'd the Governor-General go?
Hmmm... Didn't I tell you to- Aah, I give up! You must promise to do whatever I ask. Agreed?
How's the 'Luveno' holding up? Please be careful with it.
Huh? You don't have enough money? What the hell?! I'm not selling you ANYTHING now!
Huh? You say Dr. Luveno is back... and he's going to build a spaceship?! Well, I guess I have no choice but to help. I'll go there right away.
Huh? You're going to defeat LaShiec? Awesome!
I ain't talking to you, then. Get the hell away from me.
I am absolutely certain that you will defeat LaShiec and return here.
I am Hapsby. Thanks for getting me out of that scrap heap. Let me pilot the 'Luveno' for you, okay?
I am the chief of Sopia. Because it is cut off from other villages and towns due to the poison fog, this village is very poor. Could you please donate 400 meseta?
I am the Governor-General of this planet. I understand you are on a quest to defeat LaShiec. I commend you for your courage. In Maharu Cave you will find an Esper named Lutz (pronounced 'roots'). Please take this letter to him. I am absolutely certain that you will defeat LaShiec and return here.
I am the World's Greatest Fortune Teller, Damoa! Do you believe in my amazing powers?
I came looking for a robot called 'Hapsby', you see. 'Habspy'... now THAT robot could probably pilot a spaceship.
I can't create a suitable machine if I rush production! Be a little more patient!
I can't just let you pass through here!
I don't know much about this planet, but I do know that there are some native Dezorians living in a village inside the the northern mountains.
I forsee all your actions. Come to me!
I found a talking animal in Medusa's Cave earlier, see? Then I sold it off to a trader in Paseo and made a bundle! Heh, heh, heh!
I gotta real rare animal here. You can have it fuh 10 billion meseta. Wuddayuhsay?
I guess we're gonna be travelling together from now on, huh? I'm Alisa. What's your name?
I have something that I must impart to him. Could you fetch him for me?
I hear that intelligent monsters have monster languages.
I hear that LaShiec steals the souls of all who come accross him.
I hear that on the other side of the mountains there's a whole bunch of lava because of the volcanic eruptions.
I hear that the monster Medusa has returned to the cave South of the city. They say if you look at it, you'll turn to stone!
I hear that there's an enchanted sword in Abion Tower.
I hear the Altiplano Plateau on Dezoris is totally covered by them.
I hear they used to build spaceships at the lab in Gothic.
I hear you can get to the Gothic Forest - which is West of Parolit - through an underground passageway.
I hear you can use it to look at other worlds, eh.
I heard that a high-performance robot got dumped inside one of these scrap piles. I wonder if it's true?
I heard that a store in this city sells 'GasClears', apparatuses that protect the body against poison gas. The only thing is, I can't find the damn store! Sheesh!
I heard that all the dead people in the Guaran Morgue have come back to life! How creepy!
I heard that Palma is a very beautiful planet. Is it really true?
I hid the 'Dungeon Key' in a secret place, inside the warehouse located on the outskirts of Camineet residential area.
I once saw a huge floating rock in the sky!
I see that you are looking for Alex Ossale, yes?
I see. In that case, I guess it is pointless for us to talk.
I see. Let's go help him!
I see. Never mind.
I see. Then indeed, you are the daughter of the King of Algol, and our new Queen. Please let me help you however I can.
I see. Well then, take care.
I see. What a pity. Ohhh...
I see. You must do as you wish. You are welcome to return at anytime.
I see... All right then, for the sake of your brother, let's join together and destroy LaShiec!
I understand... Together, we must protect the Algol system from the hand of evil. To do that, we must first meet with Dr. Luveno in the Gothic Woods. If I recall correctly, there is manhole that leads to the village. 
I want to try and travel the stars.
I will kill anything that gets in my way!
I wonder if Motabia's Governor-general might aid you in your quest.
I'd really like to see it at least once, eh.
If you go North from this town you will reach the hill of Baya Mahrey. However, we aren't able to get near to it.
If you travel East, you will reach the port town of Shion.
If you use a crystal in front of the Laerma Tree, berries will grow, y'know.
I'm busy right now, so please don't interrupt.
I'm 'Chouko One-san'. Good luck on your journey.
I'm Gamer Miki-chan! Do you own a Master System? 
I'm Luveno. You came here to rescue me? That's not really necessary. You should go home.
I'm 'Otegami Chie-chan'! Thanks for all your letters. Please tell us how you feel about this game. We'll be waiting.
I'm sorry for having a store in a place like this. Shortcakes are 1000 meseta. Would you like one?
I'm sorry, but that's not acceptable. Please come back some other time.
In Paseo lives the Governor-General. He is the one who governs all of Motabia.
In that case, perhaps you should come back later.
In the heart of the mountains, there's a tower that can be reached by one of the roads leading out of Gothic. Inside the tower, they say, there's a freaky monster that, if you just LOOK at it, will turn yuh tuh stone!
Is that so... You show considerable promise. I shall give you this crystal as a reward.
It looks like you don't have enough money. Please come back later.
It seems that a dragon has settled in Casba Cave! That dragon has a jewel or something embedded in its head!
It seems that something turned this person into stone! Maybe he can be returned to normal...
It's a robot made out of laconia! But it seems to have been dumped into a scrap heap!
It's 'Laconia'! Laconian weapons are the strongest in the solar system.
It's on the opposite side of a trap!
I've got a baad feeling about this...
Laerma Berries are colored blue. We use them as a dye, y'know.
Laerma trees make berries called 'Laerma Berries', eh. Those berries are real tasty, eh. We wanna use them for food, eh, but if we don't put them into a 'Laconian Pot', they just get all shrivelled up, eh.
LaShiec has fallen. Alisa's wish has come true. Surely even Nero, now in heaven, will be rejoicing. Now let's hurry back to Paseo and see the Governor-General!
Leave at once!
Leaving? Better do it now.
Let me see here... Hm? This is a fake! Don't think you can fool me just because I'm a robot! Let me show you to your cell.
Lutz,
Magically-sealed doors can be opened only with magic.
Maharu Cave is located in the mountains north of Paseo.
Motabians live on Motabia, and Dezorians live on Dezoris. I'd really like to try talking to one of them sometime.
Motavia is a planet of sand.
My brother ended up dead when he tried to overthrow LaShiec. Just before he died, he gave me your name.
My name is Nekise. I just found out that the hero Tairon is staying in the town of Shion. Oh, and, your brother entrusted me with this jar - it's called a 'Laconian Pot'. Here, you should take it with you. It may come in handy later on.
My name is Suelo. I know how you feel, Alisa. No one will be able to stop you from doing what you must do, but don't overdo it, okay? If you are ever injured in battle, please come here to relax and recover. You will always be welcome.
Myau bit into a 'Laerma Berry'. As soon as Myau had taken a bite, a warm, sparkling sash of light engulfed his body. And then, in a twinkle, he transformed into a beautiful beast with enormous wings. He gave the wings a triumphant flap.
Myau was not hungry, so Alisa put the berries back. 
Myau.
Nearly all of the Palman immigrants live in this town.
Nero: ...Alisa... listen... ...LaShiec has brought an enormous calamity upon our world... ...The world is facing ruin... ...I tried to find out what LaShiec is planning... ...But by myself, I wasn't able to do anything... ...I heard rumors of a mighty warrior named 'Tairon' during my journey... ...If you combine forces, you might be able to defeat LaShiec... and restore peace... ...Alisa... ...It's too late for me... ...Please forgive me... for leaving you alone...
Nevuh mind.
No
Nobody gets through here without a 'roadpass'.
Now departing.
Now then, you can use the Luveno to fly through space. Go outside the village and take a look. It's a brilliant piece of work.
Now this is just a rumor, but supposedly there are crystals that protect against evil magic.
Oh! So you're locked up in here as well? How tragic. There IS a way to get outside, but I'D rather stay here where it's nice and cosy.
Oh! Thank you, my friends. It seems that an evil enchantment had invaded my body and soul. Well done! You have saved the world! If you had taken any longer, terrible events might have come to pass. I extend you my utmost appreciation. And now, Alisa, I have something I wish to tell you: The truth is, your father was once the King of Algol. Now that the demon's fortress has been destroyed, and LaShiec is no more, will be your father's successor and become the Queen of Algol?
Oh, I see. I want to go to a place with cleaner air.
Oh, Lutz, my boy! Finally on a quest to destroy LaShiec... That being the case, I shall give you your graduation test: a duel with me!
Okay, it looks like my staff is assembled. Manufacturing expenses come to 1200 meseta. Will you please give it to me?
Okay, you may pass.
On Motabia live the great 'Espers'.
On the beach North of Baya Mahrey, you will find Naula Cave.
On the peninsula South of Shion, you will find Iala Cave.
On the West end of this island, there is a village called Abion.
One time I traveled north of the lake, and a frightening, fog-like poison gas was spreading all over! Whatever you do, stay away from there!
Ooh, I want to go there soo bad!
Palma is a planet of greenery.
Planet Dezoris is made of ice.
Please relax and recover. Don't overdo it, okay? You will always be welcome here.
Please rest before you go.
Please return safely somehow. I'll be praying for you.
Really... In that case, perhaps I should show you the error in your ways!
Really? How boring!
Really? What a bore!
Rumour has it that there are ant-lions raging in the desert.
Say... That's a real unusual pot you got there...is 'dat a 'Laconian Pot'?! How 'bout I give you da animal, you give me da pot? Whuddayuhsay?
See, Medusa has this magical axe, and I wanted to get it, but she got away from me. Damn... But anyway... I hid a 'Compass' at a dead end in this cave. We should go get it!
Seriously? You suck!
Some weird freak just moved to this village, and he was carrying a jar or something. It seems he's been doing experiments on animals. I gotta bad feeling about that guy.
Someone turned him into stone. I can heal him with this medicine, but I can't open the lid, so...
Spring, AW 342
Stay inside the residential area if you know what's good for you.
Stop fooling around!
Tairon,
Tairon? He went to slay Medusa! That guy, he was with a talking animal! And the animal - it had a bottle of medicine around its neck. I wonder if it has any special purpose?
Tell me something first - why did you try to kill Medusa?
Thank you. According to local legend, the shield that Perseus used when he defeated Medusa is buried under a cactus on the island in the middle of the lake.
Thank you. Please come again.
Thanks for rescuing me. I don't know if it'll do any good though. If I got taken down by Medusa, I don't think I can even stand a chance against LaShiec.
Thanks. Now then, let's begin construction, shall we? Please wait for a little while.
Thanks. Please come again.
Thanks. This place used to be the lab of a scientist named 'Luveno'. But he turned crazy, see, and got locked up in Toriada, the prison to the South of this village.
Thanks. Y'know, no matter what people say, spiders are actually very wise creatures.
That is NOT a suitable gift.
That laconian pot was worth a fortune! Thanks a bundle!
The area around the Altiplano Plateau is encircled by mountains of ice.
The area beyond here is my territory, so stay the hell out!
The armor in the Guaran Morgue - did you get it?
The beautiful tone relaxes the soul. 
The Camineet residential district is under martial law.
The drug store in Abion sells Polymeteral, I hear.
The Eppi Woods are confusing. You need a 'Compass' just to pass through them.
The evil hand of LaShiec has extended to this village as well! Please help us!
The Governor-General loves sweets.
The illusionary 'Aerocastle' materialized in the vast open sky.
The neighboring villagers are all liars. Be careful.
The people in the village surrounded by gas tell a tale of a legendary shield. They say that a long time ago, a man named Perseus used that shield to confront a monster.
The road is totally obscured by the thick forest.
The sky gradually became bright, and the people regained their peace. A refreshing breeze covers Baya Mahrey... ...but the breeze - does it know of their long and painful journey?
The tower nestled in the Gothic Mountains is called 'Medusa's Tower.'
Then I ain't talking to you. Get the hell away from me.
Then we are both equally poor... these are sad times...
There are places inside the ice mountains that can be easily broken.
There are three planets: Palma, Motabia, and Dezoris.
There is a crisis drawing near to Algol...
There is a handling fee of 100 meseta. Is that alright?
There is a tower on top of Baya Mahrey knoll. There must be secrets hidden inside.
There is more than meets the eye in the dungeon.
There is more than meets the eye in this dungeon, fools.
There is nothing more I can teach you.
There's a dragon living in Casba Cave! I'm so scared!
There's a Life Spring/Fountain of Youth in Corona Tower, y'know.
There's a monk named Tajimu living in the mountains South of the lake.
There's a warp on the 10th underground floor of Dezoris cave, y'know.
There's this chemical called 'Polymeteral' that they say will dissolve any material except laconia.
They say if an animal called a 'Musk Cat' eats a certain type of berry, it'll grow large, and become able to fly! Weird, huh?
They say that all sorts of business goes on in the port town.
This flame is lit during each centennial solar eclipse. If you give me a dragon's jewel, however, I'll share the flame with you. Do we have an agreement? 
This is Alisa's house. Nobody is here.
This is an item shop. What can I do for you? Haah haah! Sorry, I'm just kidding! Please forgive me.
This is Casba Village.
This is Drasgo, a tiny town on the sea.
This is Gothic. 
This is Palma Spaceport. From here, you can get to Paseo on Motabia.
This is Parolit residential district.
This is Paseo Spaceport on Motabia.
This is Paseo, capital of Motabia.
This is Skray, on the planet Dezoris. Cold out there, ain't it?
This is the port town of Shion. This place used to be busy with trade.
This is the Village of Lore. Thanks to LaShiec, it's become a wasteland.
This is Uzo Village, on the planet Motavia.
This planet has a solar eclipse once every hundred years. There is a flame lit at this time called an 'Eclipse Torch'. It is regarded by the Dezorians as sacred. 
This ship goes to Motabia. Would you like to get aboard?
This ship goes to Palma. Would you like to get aboard?
This village is called Abion.
This village is called Sopia. I'm glad that you were able to brave your way through the poison gas.
This village welcomes Palmans.
Those antlions are impossible to pass over on FOOT, but...
Those guys in the village next to us are all a bunch of liars. Be careful, eh.
Though the memories of darkness will fade away, the names of the heroes will continue to remain in the hearts of the people.
Times have been rough lately, don't you think? I wonder if there's anywhere I can go to make money.
To meet with the Governor-General, you need to have a gift.
To the South of Uzo, there is a village called Casba.
To the West of Corona Tower is Dezoris Cave, eh. Please send my regards to our comrades there, eh.
Want to stay alive? Then stay here!
We came to deliver this letter from the Governor-General. Won't you read it please?
We will all be sacrificed at the hands of LaShiec! Ooooh...
Weapons made from Laconia conceal holy powers, y'know. I heard that LaShiec despises them, so he hid them here and there throughout the planets of Algol.
Welcome to Eppi Village!
Well then, I'll look after this 'Shortcake'.
Well then, please accept this 'Eclipse Torch'.
Well, I bought one on Palma, in the town of Shion, but it turned out to be broken, so I ditched it in Bartevo. What a waste!
Well, I guess I gotta do what Dr. Luveno says. Go ahead and pass.
Well, if you won't promise, then I'm afraid I can't help you.
Well, Myau, tell me what happened to Tairon.
Well, this is a secret, but when I went to Palma, I buried it on the outskirts of Gothic Village. Don't tell anybody!
West of Camineet? That's the Spaceport.
Whassup? I haven't seen any people in a long time! Let's talk!
What a frightening dream! There's no time to lose! Have faith in yourself. I'll be praying for your safety.
What a shame. So your journey ends here, I suppose...
What did you say? You are very disobedient. I think you should leave.
What is your business here? Don't cause any trouble!
What? Did you say 'build a spaceship?' Do you think I want to be responsible for something like that?
What? 'Overthrow LaShiec?' If you really are going to do that, you must gather all of the Laconian weapons: Sword, Axe, Shield, and Armor. These weapons are more powerful than any others. I'll be praying for your safety.
What?! Could it be that I die? What a disgrace. I shall live again!
When you're in the forest, you need to be especially cautious.
Where would you like to go?
Who am I? I am LaShiec's shadow warrior. Even though you have defeated me, you have gained NOTHING! Hee hee hee!
Who are you? I'm in the middle of training right now. Please don't interrupt.
Who the hell told you that? You'd better just forget about it if you know what's good for you.
Who, may I ask, are you? I have an apprentice named Lutz in Maharu Cave. Do you know him?
With a FlowMover, you can glide smoothly across the top of the water. They can really come in handy!
Wow! I guess we game the same! After all, the FM sound system is way cool, huh?
Yeah, right. You gotta be kiddin' me!
Yes
Y'know, I've got a friend in Bartevo. But those lava pools must be making things real tough right now, I guess. If you see my friend, could you tell him I said 'hi?'
YOU - are the coolest!
You are extremely brave. I will kill you now.
You are very brave. Please allow me to kill you...
You better not go any further, 'cuz there's a guard station up there.
You can apply for a 'passport' here. Would you like to apply?
You can pass over antlions if you have a 'LandMaster.'
You can travel to Paseo, on the planet Motavia, from the spaceport.
You can't use that right here!
You do? Never mind then.
You don't have enough? I'm sorry, but must get some more money.
You don't want it?! Then, ah, for what did you come here?
You enter into a deep sleep...
You found the 'FlowMover'! Hapsby fixed the areas that were damaged, so you can use it now!
You found the 'Shield of Perseus'
You found the 'Soothe Flute'
You gotta be real careful from here on in. Turn left at the fork.
You have already wasted too much of my time. I shall make you regret it!
You just don't quit, do you? I give up. If you're gonna keep bugging me, then just take it. But don't tell anybody.
You mean to say you don't have the jewel?! Don't toy with me!
You must be pretty shocked to see a store in a place like THIS, huh? 'GasClears' are 1000 meseta. Pretty cheap, no? You wanna buy one?
You must be tired from your long journey. You should relax here for a while.
You need a 'Dungeon Key' to open locked doors.
You still lack discipline, my boy. You should come back later.
You will not be able to advance through certain dungeons if you don't have a light.
You're not? Never mind then.
You're on a quest to defeat LaShiec, huh? Well, good luck!
You've become strong, my boy! You are as strong as you will ever need to be. Please use this gift from me: the Frad Cloak. It will protect your body from harm. Well then, you'd best be on your way.
zzz... zzz...
